GH-90908: Document asyncio.TaskGroup (#94359)
python/cpython: Doc/library/asyncio-task.rst

      world
      finished at 17:14:34

* The :class:`asyncio.TaskGroup` class provides a more modern
  alternative to :func:`create_task`.

>   Using this API the last example becomes::

Reviewer: I think this is a little backwards: instead of introducing `asyncio.create_task` first and later saying that there is a different recommended alternative, I think we should *start* with `TaskGroup.create_task` and present `asyncio.create_task` as the *unstructured* alternative.

Author: I had considered that, but we are not far enough along on the road to universal adoption of TaskGroup to present it that way. And honestly I think it makes sense to first show how you can do something using basic primitives (say, take a group of two rocks and a group of three rocks and count them, finding five rocks) before introducing the higher-level primitives (e.g., roman numerals :-). Once you've seen the TaskGroup version you're never going back to the primitive approach, so the only alternative would be to *replace* the basic version with the TaskGroup example, and that would leave too much other parts of the documentation hanging.

In this PR I am just *introducing* TaskGroup, not rewriting everything that mentions tasks to direct the user to TaskGroup (yet). I do plan to insert references to TaskGroup in other places though.

Reviewer: I see, sounds good then.

>   Using this API the last example becomes::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Using this API, the last example becomes::
```

Missing comma

      async def main():
          async with asyncio.TaskGroup() as tg:
              task1 = tg.create_task(
                  say_after(1, 'hello'))

              task2 = tg.create_task(
                  say_after(2, 'world'))

              print(f"started at {time.strftime('%X')}")

          # The wait is implicit when the context manager exits.

          print(f"finished at {time.strftime('%X')}")

> The timing and output should be the same as for the previous version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The timing and output should be the same as for the previous version.
```

Fix indent level

>    .. versionchanged:: 3.11
>       Added :class:`asyncio.TaskGroup`.

Reviewer 2: Why not

```suggestion
  .. versionadded:: 3.11
     :class:`asyncio.TaskGroup`.
```

Otherwise, just fix indent level

```suggestion
  .. versionchanged:: 3.11
     Added :class:`asyncio.TaskGroup`.
```

   :exc:`RuntimeError` is raised if there is no running loop in
   current thread.

   .. note::

      :meth:`asyncio.TaskGroup.create_task` is a newer alternative
      that allows for convenient waiting for a group of related tasks.

> 

Reviewer: Same here. The topic of creating tasks could present `TG.create_task` here first, and the raw function later as a less recommended *unstructured* alternative.

Author: Same response. The docs can evolve, but right now I don't want to disturb too much of the existing structure (out of fear that I break how everything fits together).

      Added the *context* parameter.

Task Groups
===========

Task groups combine a task creation API with a convenient
and reliable API to wait for completion of all tasks in the group.
For an example see the last bullet under :ref:`coroutine`.

.. class:: TaskGroup()

   An :ref:`asynchronous context manager <async-context-managers>`
   holding a group of tasks.
   Tasks can be added to the group using the :meth:`create_task` method.
   All tasks are awaited when the context manager exits.

   .. versionadded:: 3.11

>    .. method:: create_tasks(coro, *, name=None, context=None)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. method:: create_task(coro, *, name=None, context=None)
```

      Added the *context* parameter.

Task Groups
===========

Task groups combine a task creation API with a convenient

> and reliable API to wait for all tasks in the group to finish.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and reliable way to wait for all tasks in the group to finish.
```

Avoid repetitive and potentially confusing repeat of "API", and use plainer and more direct language

> Example::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example::
```

Since this is prose, and flows better

Author: Nah, I'm following the lead from the majority of examples elsewhere in this file.

    async def main():
        async with asyncio.TaskGroup() as tg:
            task1 = tg.create_task(some_coro(...))
            task2 = tg.create_task(another_coro(...))
        print("Both tasks have completed now.")

The ``async with`` statement will wait for all tasks in the group to finish.
While waiting, new tasks may still be added to the group
(for example, by passing ``tg`` into one of the coroutines
and calling ``tg.create_task()`` in that coroutine).
Once the last task has finished and the ``async with`` block is exited,
no new tasks may be added to the group.

> When one of the tasks belonging to the group fails
> with an exception other than :exc:`asyncio.CancelledError`,
> the remaining tasks in the group are cancelled.
> This cancellation of the remaining tasks is done only
> the first time any task fails (excluding :exc:`asyncio.CancelledError`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first time any of the tasks belonging to the group fails
with an exception other than :exc:`asyncio.CancelledError`,
the remaining tasks in the group are cancelled.
```

Instead of repeating essentially the same statement twice, maybe make this simpler and less wordy/repetitive by phrasing things this way?

At this point, if the body of the ``async with`` statement is still active

> (i.e., ``__aexit__`` hasn't been called yet),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(i.e., :meth:`~object.__aexit__` hasn't been called yet),
```

Use an appropriate role which cross-references this

the task directly containing the ``async with`` statement is also cancelled.
The resulting :exc:`asyncio.CancelledError` will interrupt an ``await``,
but it will not bubble out of the containing ``async with`` statement.

Once all tasks have finished, if any tasks have failed
with an exception other than :exc:`asyncio.CancelledError`,
those exceptions are combined in an
:exc:`ExceptionGroup` or :exc:`BaseExceptionGroup`

> (as appropriate, see their documentation)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(as appropriate; see their documentation)
```

Comma splice

which is then raised.

Two base exceptions are treated specially:
If any task fails with :exc:`KeyboardInterrupt` or :exc:`SystemExit`,
the task group still cancels the remaining tasks and waits for them,
but then the initial :exc:`KeyboardInterrupt` or :exc:`SystemExit`
is re-raised instead of :exc:`ExceptionGroup` or :exc:`BaseExceptionGroup`.

If the body of the ``async with`` statement exits with an exception

> (so ``__aexit__`` is called with an exception set),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(so :meth:`~object.__aexit__` is called with an exception set),
```

As above

this is treated the same as if one of the tasks failed:
the remaining tasks are cancelled and then waited for,

> and non-cancellation exceptions are grouped into a
> (base) exception group and raised.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and non-cancellation exceptions are grouped into an
exception group and raised.
```

Since we're just referring to the term/concept as opposed to the specific concrete classes, might make a little more sense and be a bit simpler to elide the `(base)` here.

> The exception passed into ``__aexit__``,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The exception passed into :meth:`~object.__aexit__`,
```

For format consistency

unless it is :exc:`asyncio.CancelledError`,
is also included in the exception group.
The same special case is made for

> :exc:`KeyboardInterrupt` and :exc:`SystemExit` here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:exc:`KeyboardInterrupt` and :exc:`SystemExit` as in the previous paragraph.
```

Be a bit more explicit?
